http://flockhart.virtualave.net/afal/spelldesc.html


    Wizard Spells in Our Campaign That Aren't in the Compendium


      === Dragon #226 ===

*Swami Spells*

*Cloud messenger*
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 1
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell, based on a classical pane-gyric poem, can be cast only on a
day with cloud cover: mist, rain, snow, and so on. The spell summons a
small cloud to act as a messenger for the caster. The caster can impart
a message of up to five minutes length to the cloud, which then hurries
across the sky to the intended recipient. Its maximum Move is 96, though
favorable gales might increase this. The cloud messenger must be told
the location and general appearance of the recipient; it is incapable of
asking for directions. It is not entirely substantial and so can go
through tiny openings and survive heavy winds. It can carry objects
weighing up to 10 pounds for delivery. When it reaches its recipient, it
relates the entire message including whatever emo-tion it heard in the
caster’s voice. The cloud messenger then returns to its caster; one may
follow it to the caster’s location. The material components are fresh
flow-ers and a bottle of rainwater.

*Waking light of dawn*
(Enchantment/Charm)
Level: 1
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes sleeping creatures to awaken. If naturally asleep or
affected by a sleep spell, the creatures awaken instantly. If under the
influence of a more powerful enchantment, the creatures are given new
saving throws against the effect, modified by +1 per four levels of the
caster. If the creatures are suffering from a sleeping poison or disease
(such as that from the tsetse fly), the spell works exactly as a slow
poison on the affected creatures. The spell does not simulate the
effects of a good night’s sleep, nor can it reduce the sleep neces- sary
before memorization of spells. The material component is a lock which
must be unlocked during casting.

*Distract*
(Enchantment/Charm)
Level: 3
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
A mage can use this spell to distract all within hearing distance who
are trying to do any sort of work other than combat. The material
component of the spell is a flute. While the caster plays the flute (no
proficiency necessary), those wishing to continue in their work must
make a Wisdom check each round to concen-trate on their task at hand.
Wisdom checks are at +4 if stopping work would result in imminent harm
(failing to shore up a seawall during a monsoon, for example).
Distracted persons cannot for-mulate strategies, instruct others, write,
draw, or otherwise do complex work. However, the spell does not pacify
those present, so they may attack the caster if they desire. If the
caster stops playing the flute before the duration is over, the effect
ends.

*Skin of the fire tiger*
(Alteration)
Level: 3
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: None
When cast on the caster or another creature, this spell imbues the
subject with glowing orange stripes across his skin. These stripes
generate a deep inter-nal warmth that acts as a resist cold spell. While
in effect, the subject’s skin is scald-ing hot to the touch, so anyone
touching the subject’s open skin suffers 1d3 points of damage. If the
subject uses an unarmed combat attack or is attacked by an unarmed foe,
the damage is applied to the subject’s foe. The subject and his garments
are unaffected by the scalding effect but are not otherwise protected
from fire or heat. After the spell elapses, the subject will be
incapacitated for one round due to shivering unless endure cold or
resist cold is cast on him. The material component of the spell is a
tiger-eye gem.

*Serpent garland*
(Alteration)
Level: 4
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 item
Saving Throw: Special
By casting this spell, the mage turns his ordinary scarf, necklace, or
other neckwear into a poisonous snake. The snake appears to be the
normal piece of clothing or jewelry until the caster desires it to
attack. It strikes as a Warrior with a level equal to that of the
caster. Its bite causes 1d2 points of damage, plus it also injects a
poison if the victim does not make a saving throw vs. poison. The poi-
son may be of the caster’s choosing: lethal (save or die), paralytic
(save or be paralyzed for 4d4 turns), or soporific (save or fall into a
coma for ld4 days). The snake may attack once per round, during which
time it is revealed as a ser- pent. Reversing the sticks to snakes spell
cancels this magic, and the snake is sub- ject to snake charms. When the
duration elapses or the effect is dispelled, the gar- ment or jewelry
returns to normal.

*Mourning stone*
(Abjuration)
Level: 4
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Up to 1 ton/level
Saving Throw: Special
This spell channels a person’s grief over loss of a loved one into
stone. When cast upon a subject and an amount of stone, the spell pulls
the grief from the subject’s heart and forces the stone to grieve
instead. The subject gets a saving throw vs. magic to avoid the effects
if he wants to retain his grief. When affected by the spell, the subject
feels the weight of sorrow unburdened from his heart. The stone shows
its grief by becoming pristine white and refracting light like a prism,
never appearing exactly the same twice. Persons viewing the stone are
awestruck and saddened for one round though not stopped from acting.
Within 10’ of mourning stone, emotion, and other such spells and effects
are cancelled. Stone enchanted by this spell can be used to erect
buildings, in the manner of beautiful and enigmatic mausolea like the
Taj Mahal.

*Third eye*
(Evocation)
Level: 7
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Caster
Saving Throw: Special
This spell creates a swirling spiral on the caster’s forehead which
casts beams of annihilation. The third eye fires a ray which has the
same attack roll as the mage. The beams must attack a target every
round, living or otherwise. Creatures hit by the third eye’s ray must
save vs. spell or be killed, while inani- mate objects must save vs.
disintegration or break apart. While this spell is in effect, the caster
may use no other spells or attacks. At the end of the spell, the caster
must make a System Shock roll to avoid falling unconscious for 3d4 rounds.

*Life illusion*
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Level: 8
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: Special
Similar to a maze spell, the life illusion spell creates a new mental
world in which the subject can live. The illusionary life (maya) can
include any manner of new persons, surroundings, and even new classes
and abilities for the subject. The subject is allowed a saving throw vs.
spells to avoid entering this new world, but if he fails, the subject
retains only dream-like memories of his real life. Entire months or
years can pass in this new life, though time passes much faster here
than in the real world. No method of exit is allowed while in the
illusory world, except the priest spell penetrate cosmic ignorance. The
illusion seems real but may contain flaws and mispercep- tions based on
the subjects lack of understanding of his new surroundings. Thus, the
subject is allowed new saving throws vs. spells every so often based on
his Wisdom score. If a saving throw is successful, the subject returns
to reality with much of the memory of the illusory life, though no new
abilities are retained. New saving throws are allowed on the following
schedule:

Subject’s Wisdom
Score 	Time Between
Saving Throws
under 3	2d4 days
3 - 6	1d4+1 days
7-10	2d8 hours
11-14	1d8+1 hours
15-18	1d4 hours
19 and up	1d4 turns

The material component is a sketch of the environment in which the
subject will stay. If the sketch is marred or destroyed during the
spell’s duration, the subject immediately returns to reality.

*Monsoon*
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 9
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10d100 square miles
Saving Throw: None
This spell can only be cast in a climate which could have monsoons, such
as a semi-tropical coastline. When cast, the spell conjures up the most
powerful of wind and rainstorms to ravage the area. Winds come at
hundreds of miles per hour, smashing boats and unstable struc- tures.
Rain pounds the area, swamping piers and depressions. The spell causes
siege damage as by a screw or drill on all structures and trees in the
area of effect, and all unmoored ships must make sea- worthiness checks.
(DUNGEON MASTER® Guide, pages 105 and 170). Creatures that cannot take
adequate cover on high ground must save vs. paralyzation to avoid
drowning. From the caster’s point of view, the most dangerous aspect of
this spell is its range of zero. This means the caster must be amid the
effect; if he is not protected, he is subject to the same effects as
everyone else. The monsoon can be countered using a control weather
spell, but the caster of that spell must roll greater than the monsoon
creator’s Intelligence on a d20, with +1 added to the roll for each
level that the control weather caster exceeds the level of the monsoon
creator. Once the monsoon is unleashed, the caster has no control over
it, and it may combine with existing weather conditions to have greater
dura- tion and effect than anticipated.


*Brahmin Spells*

*Om*
(Abjuration)
Sphere: All
Level: 1
Range: 0
Components: V
Duration: Until ceased
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Caster
Saving Throw: None
This simple chant creates a deep clar- ity in the caster’s mind. All
outside sounds and sights are blocked out, allow- ing the priest to
regain spells or hit points at a 50% faster rate; however, the priest
cannot focus on anything outside him- self. Anything that disrupts
concentration, such as an attack on the priest or a con- scious action
by him breaks the spell. Spells cast on the priest are affected by the
om spell. The priest is immune to sleep and charm effects while
chanting, and receives a +4 on all saving throws that allow Wisdom
bonuses; however, the priest forfeits saving throw bonuses for Dexterity
or anything else requiring- conscious thought. Magical healing is not
affected by the spell’s increased healing rate.

*Sanctify ghi*
(Alteration) Reversible
Sphere: All
Level: 1
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 8 hours
Area of Effect: 2 ounces/level
Saving Throw: None
This augments the holy clarification of butter into a liquid substance
called ghi. Cow or buffalo milk must be churned, boiled, and blessed to
make holy ghi, which can be used on undead as holy water. When drunk,
the holy ghi acts as a mild curative, healing 1d3 points of dam- age per
ounce. The reverse of this spell, desecrate ghi, is used by evil priests
to cre- ate a liquid butter version of unholy water, which harms
paladins and Kshatriya. Either of these spells can be used to counter
the other.

*Karma sight*
(Divination) Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Level: 2
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell determines the number of karma points that a target creature
has. (For rules on karma, see Legends & Lore, pages 124-126.) In
creatures from soci- eties not based on India, it determines level or
Hit Dice. Unless the creature is a willing target, it is allowed a
saving throw vs. spells to avoid the revelation of its karma. This spell
does not directly affect the mind of the target, so Wisdom bonuses and
mind shielding do not help avoid the effect. The priest may examine
multiple targets, but if a creature saves against the effect, it cannot
be examined again during that casting of the spell. The reverse of the
spell, karma musk, hides a subject’s karma for 24 hours, though any
divine being can see through the mask.

*Steep soma-juice*
(Alteration)
Sphere: Protection
Level: 2
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: One week
Casting Time: 8 hours
Area of Effect: 2 ounces/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell is per Legends & Lore, page 132. It is primarily for those of
Indian societies, though others could be allowed to use it or their
deities could grant it if the Dungeon Master desires. When the priest
brews and blesses the soma plant’s leaves, he creates a powerful magical
juice. Those drinking at least one ounce a week receive two benefits: an
increase of one point of Constitution and immunity to non-magical
disease. These effects dis- sipate at the end of a week without
soma-juice. The priests generally restrict the usage of the juice to
nobles and priests.

*That art thou*
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Level: 3
Range: 0
Components: V
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 30’ radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
By uttering the phrase “tat tvam asi” (“that art thou”), the caster’s
senses become one with all beings and objects within a 30’ radius sphere
centered on the caster. The caster sees and feels everything sensed by
every person, cater pillar, tree, and rock in the area of effect. (A
first-time caster will be surprised how much a rock feels.) The onrush
of sensory information allows the caster to know of all beings and
objects in the area, includ- ing hidden and invisible creatures, traps,
and magic items. The caster does not sense thoughts or detect powers of
crea- tures and objects contacted. Because the spell accesses thoughts,
any being whose thoughts are masked cannot be spotted solely with this
spell. While the spell is in effect, the caster may take no other
action, including movement and speech. The caster may discontinue the
effect at any time during the spell’s duration.

*See all faces*
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Level: 4
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell requires that an item belonging to the target be in the
caster’s possession. When cast, an unwilling tar- get must make saving
throw vs. spells or have all major aspects of his personality revealed
to the caster. Thus, if the target is a mage, a rajah, a lothario, or a
liar, the caster knows it. Note that the see all faces spell reveals
only truly major aspects; if the aforementioned target also liked
chocolate and raga music, this would not be revealed. Since this spell
does not affect the mind, mind shielding and Wisdom bonuses are not
effective defenses.

*Pool of deeds*
(Enchantment)
Sphere: Divination, Elemental (Water)
Level: 5
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 24 hours
Casting Time: 6 turns
Area of Effect: 1 pool
Saving Throw: None
The pool of deeds spell turns any pool of water, from as small as a
birdbath to as large as a small lake, into a storyteller. The enchanted
pool can recount the pub- licly known deeds of any one individual
exactly as they happened. The subject may be living, dead, or even not
yet born; the deeds may reflect the past, pre- sent, and even possible
futures. The sur- face of the water reflects the images as if they were
happening at the moment, and at the speed at which they occurred. The
caster must know of the stories that he wants to reflect, but he need
not know the details. If the caster wishes to reflect deeds that are not
publicly known, he may try The subject makes a saving throw vs. spells
to keep secrets unre- vealed; this roll is at the subjects level at the
time of the revealed deeds.

The caster may create a pool of deeds that reflects his own future, but
the images may leave out critical details to prevent tampering with the
future. The caster should expect whatever appears to come true,
regardless of his efforts to change it. The pool is activated by toss-
ing in a handful of colored powder.

*Conceal lifeforce*
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Necromantic
Level: 5
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell hides a being’s lifeforce (shakti) from detection, preventing
spells like karma sight and reincarnation sight from working on the
creature. It can also be used for a much more dangerous pur- pose: to
prevent the creature from being reincarnated, at least temporarily. By
cast- ing conceal lifeforce on a creature within an hour of its death,
the creature’s self (atman) is hidden from the divine agents who attend
to reincarnation. During the spell’s duration, the character may be
raised or resurrected. (This should be the only way raise dead or
resurrection can be used on a character from an Indian- based culture or
with an Indian-based PC kit more than a day after death; see Legends &
Lore, page 126.) Using this spell for this purpose is a violation of the
cos- mic order and may trigger divine wrath.

*Reincarnation sight*
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination, Necromantic
Level: 6
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell reveals the presence of a reincarnated character. Using a
piece of clothing belonging to the original charac- ter, the priest may
use this spell to dis- cover the reincarnation of that charac- ter’s
name, appearance, and approxi- mate location. If found, a reincarnation
has only vague memories of his past and will be unlikely to recognize
any of his compatriots. The spell can cross planar barriers, but it
cannot penetrate barriers like conceal lifeforce or amulets of life pro-
tection.

A second use of this spell is to reveal to a person all of the memories
of one of his reincarnations. The priest needs merely to touch the
subject, and he knows all that his past life contained. Using the two
uses of this spell in order can reacquaint old friends, at least in a
superficial way. (Note that these spells allow a slain PC to rejoin the
campaign with his memories intact, and perhaps his level and abilities.
See the reincarna- tion table on page 126 of Legends&Lore.)

*Penetrate cosmic ignorance*
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Level: 7
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10'/level radius
Saving Throw: Special
This dangerous spell is based on the age-old belief that the world is
just illu- sion and that mortals may not compre- hend it. Penetrate
cosmic ignorance allows a partial piercing of that veil. When cast, the
spell reveals the divine hands behind every creature and object present.
The caster learns of characters’ patron deities, consecrated spaces,
holy relics, spell residue, and extra-planar creatures. It tells every
character’s level, every magic item’s power, and every monster’s spe-
cial abilities, among many other revela- tions. Wherever the hands of
deities manipulate life — and they do so every- where — the priest will
know it. Using this spell requires the caster to make a saving throw vs.
breath weapon, modified only by Wisdom bonuses. If the character fails,
he is driven insane by the revelation; if ever cured, he forgets
everything he saw. In addition, using this spell wipes all other spells
from the cast- er’s mind, and the character must rest a full night
before learning new ones.

*Call avatar*
Sphere: All
Level: 7
Range: Unlimited
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 6 turns
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This risky spell allows the priest to summon an avatar of his deity. The
spell opens up a gate to another plane, and, though the avatar is
compelled to come through the rift, it is not compelled to stay more
than an instant. Even if it chooses to hear the requests of the priests,
the avatar may or may not grant them. The avatar may also make demands
on the priest as well, and the priest would do well to heed them. The
avatar may stay as long as it likes, often at great expense to the
caster. The spell requires a relic of the deity in question; when the
avatar leaves, it takes the relic with it. Casting this spell ages the
caster five years.


      === Dragon #227 ===

The higher-level spells can create an awesome display that would make
any opponent think twice about tangling with the manipulator of such
magic. Inventive players and DMs should be able to put a fireworks mage
(a special-ist) to quite good use.

Dungeon Masters can make the use of firework spells more interesting and
challenging by specifying particulars regarding their casting. For
instance, in my campaign, spellcasters can dictate the color of the
spell effects when casting spells by manipulating their choice of
material components; otherwise the col-ors are random. (Specifying
colors in material components adds considerably to their manufacturing
value.) The fireworks spells noted below all draw their substance and
energy from the quasi-elemental plane of Radiance. Creatures from the
elemental plane of Fire suffer half damage from any physi-cal effects.
Creatures from the quasi-ele-mental plane of Radiance or the positive
energy plane suffer no damage. A subtle difference in the verbal
com-ponent allows the mage to render all firework spells harmless. This
difference is most often (90%) included in spell instructions; however,
there is a 10% chance that the spell is set for either a harmful or
non-harmful effect. If the spellcaster is unfamiliar with firework
spells, he may not know the difference. This often has disastrous
results. While less effective in daylight, fire-work spells can still be
used if the caster properly color-cues the components. The DM should
adjudicate the visual effects — while not the damage — depending upon
the light conditions.


*First level*

*Firecracker*
(Evocation)
Range: 90 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting time: 1
Area of Effect: 10’ radius
Saving throw: None
With this spell, the wizard creates small, firecracker-type explosions
within the area of effect. One “string” of 10 fire- crackers is created
per level of the caster. The strings appear 10 seconds after each other.
The firecrackers appear in a 10’ radius and inflict 1 hp damage per
string to all in the area. The firecrackers are loud and create quite a
bit of acrid smoke that, unless dispersed by a strong wind, remains in
the area for 1-3 rounds after the spell is finished. Any creatures in
the area must successfully save vs. poison, or the smoke makes their
eyes smart and water, giving them -1 on attack rolls. If the spell is
used in a surprise situation, the party being surprised has a +4
penal-ty to the die roll.

The material component is several hairs from a black cat.

*Sparkler*
(Evocation)
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds/level
Casting time: 1
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: None
This spell creates a sparkler effect that can originate from any metal
object. It creates an intensely bright light at the end of the object
which throws off harm-less sparks in a 2’ radius. The sparkler does not
harm the object upon which it is cast. The effect sheds light in a 10’
radius similar to torchlight. If the sparkler is touched to exposed
flesh (including the caster’s), it inflicts 1 hp damage per level of the
caster to a maximum of 10 hp. This causes the spell to end and the
effect to go out. Dispel magic, darkness, and cold-generating magic does
extin-guish this spell, but ordinary water does not. This spell can
light a torch or tinder in 3 rounds, but it cannot directly light oil.
Sparkler works normally underwater.

The material component is a tiny strip of magnesium, which is not
consumed in the casting.


*Second level*

*Flare*
(Evocation)
Range: 180 feet + 30 feet/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 9 rounds + 2 rounds/level
Casting time: 5
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: Neg.
This spell creates a flare of light that shoots up into the air from a
brass tube into which the caster has inserted a tiny strip of magnesium.
The magnesium is consumed in the spell; the tube is not. The ball of
light is only 1” in diameter when shot but bursts with a 10’ radius upon
attaining the desired range. The ball slowly drifts to the ground at 20’
per round. The flare continues to shed light in a spherical area whose
diameter is equal to its maximum range throughout the spell duration
regardless of its location. The brightness is equal in intensity to a
light spell. Environmental light conditions affect the illuminatory
effects of the flare, although the flare itself can be seen even in
bright daylight. The flare is not hot and cannot set combustible objects
on fire. It can be shot at any angle up, down, or across provided it can
travel at least 90’. If the spell effect hits any object before
traveling 90’, it automatically fails.

The flare can be fired at a living target and, if used in this manner,
acts as a light spell.

*Goblin Chaser*
(Evocation)
Range: 60 yards + 20 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 segment/level
Casting time: 2
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: None
Goblin chaser sends a 3” diameter ball of light whistling along the
ground in a direction indicated by the mage. The ball of light can
travel either in a straight line (“shoot and forget”) or any course
(“actively directed”) by the caster. The goblin chaser travels 100 yards
per round. At the end of the spell’s duration, on impact, or sooner if
so designated by the caster, the ball explodes with a brilliant flash of
light inflicting 1 hp damage per level of the caster to any creature
within a 5’ radius.

The ball must travel along a solid sur-face or it fails. As the ball
travels, it emits a shrill, downward glissando whistle.

The material component is a silver-coated brass slide whistle worth at
least 10 gp. The caster manipulates the whis-tle only for a brief
moment, not for the entire casting time or duration of the spell. The
whistle is not consumed in the casting.

*Spark fountain*
(Evocation)
Range: 60 yards + 1 yard/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds + 3 rounds/level
Casting time: 2
Area of effect: 20’ radius
Saving throw: None
With this spell, the caster creates a shower of brilliant, multi-colored
sparks that shoot up in a fountain 8’ high. The fountain illuminates an
area with a 20’ radius with the brightness of torchlight. Anyone in a 5’
radius centered on the base of the fountain suffers 2 hp damage per
round from the falling sparks. If the fountain is restricted in height,
say through a low ceiling, the sparks fall outward 1’ further for each
1’ of height it is restricted. It can be created only on a solid,
nonliving surface at least the consistency of mud.

The material component is a small, silver-coated brass cone worth at
least 10 gp. The cone is not consumed in the casting.


*Third Level*

*Bakarapper*
(Evocation)
Range: 120 yards + 20 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting time: 3
Area of effect: 20’ radius
Saving throw: None
This spell can be quite deadly if used against aerial creatures. With
bakarapper, the caster creates a 1” ball of light that shoots into the
sky much like a flare. Upon reaching the designated target point,
however, the ball disappears. Six seconds later, the ball explodes into
sev-eral balls of light (one per level of caster) that fly out in random
directions from the center and then explode inward six seconds after
that. The initial explosion causes no damage; the second explosion
inflicts 2 hp damage per level of the cast-er to any creature within a
20’ radius from the initial explosion.

When casting the spell, the spellcaster can add a thunderclap sound that
increases the casting time to 4. The thun-derclap deafens all in the
area of effect causing them a penalty of 2 on die rolls. This spell must
be cast so that the initial ball of light is fired at a minimum of a 45°
angle from the horizontal plane. It can be triggered at any distance
beyond 3”.

The material component is a hollow 3” silver ball worth at least 200 gp.
The tube is not consumed in the casting.

*Dragon Whirl*
(Evocation)
Range: 60 yards +10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting time: 3
Area of effect: 5’ radius
Saving throw: Half damage
This spell creates a 1’ diameter circle of whirling sparks at the
caster’s feet. The whirl sheds light in a 10’ radius. It shoots out in
an arc to a target point designated by the caster and explodes into a
sphere with a 5’ radius and inflicts 2d4 hp dam-age. A successful save
vs. spell halves the damage.

It acts like Melf’s minute meteors in that after the first whirl is
created and sent out, subsequent whirls are created auto-matically each
round thereafter. Each successive whirl is created and fired in the
first few seconds of a melee round. The caster can fire the whirl and
then cast another spell that round. The caster must designate a target
each round or the spell stays in place, exploding at the end of the
round. The spell can be discontin-ued by the caster before the duration
expires naturally. The spell flies out at a rance of 1” per second.

The material component is a silver likeness of a dragon worth at least
250 gp. It is not consumed in the spell casting.

*Roman Candle*
(Evocation)
Range: 120 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level
Casting time: 3
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: None
The Roman candle spell fires small balls of light in a brightly colored
array from a silver tube. The balls shoot out a rate of fire determined
by the caster, but they cannot be fired faster than than one ball every
20 seconds nor slower than one per round. The caster can target each
ball separately. The balls are shot as if missile weapons fired by a
warrior of the same level as the caster (for exam-ple, Roman candle
balls fired by a 10th-level mage have the THAC0 of a 10th-level
warrior). Upon impact, each ball inflicts 1 hp damage for each level of
the caster. If the ball misses, it travels to its range limit (unless it
hits another object in the line of fire) and explodes, inflicting 1 hp
damage on anyone within a 5’ radius.

The mage must continue to direct the silver tube or (unless the spell is
discon-tinued by the caster) the balls go off in the direction the tube
is facing until the spell expires. If cast at a rate of one per round,
the caster can place the tube in a safe place (on the ground, in a belt,
etc.) and cast another spell, much as with Melf’s minute meteors. It
takes several seconds to place, and another few to recover the tube. At
the one-per-round rate, the balls always shoot out in the first few
seconds. The rate of fire cannot be changed once the spell is cast.

The material component is a 1” diameter tube of pure silver which is at
least 6” long. It must be worth at least 150 gp in workmanship. It is
not consumed in the spell casting.


*Fourth Level*

*Special Effects*
(Alteration)
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting time: 1 round
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: None
With this spell, the caster can shape the physical characteristics of
his fire-work spells. This spell also effects any spell that can be
bound by a display spell. Thus a wall of fog can be formed into a
mountain shape, or a starburst can burst into a phalanx of spears. The
caster “shapes” his fireworks spells as he casts them, adding half a
round to the casting time of each individual spell.

*Starburst*
(Evocation)
Range: 180 yards + 20 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting time: 5
Area of effect: Sphere up to 800 yards in diameter
Saving throw: Half
Perhaps the most spectacular of the fireworks spells, starburst creates
a huge aerial burst of colored sparks. Like bakarapper, it must be fired
upward at least 45° angle from the horizontal. The initial effect is a
1’ diameter ball of light that explodes at a designated point and sends
multicolored sparks outward in a brilliant display. Any creature caught
in the area of effect suffers 2d4 hp damage, plus 1 hp damage per level
of the caster. The initial ball of light must travel for at least 90’ or
it fails, The spellcaster can add a thunderclap sound at the casting of
the spell, increasing the casting time to 6. The thunderclap causes
deafness to all in the area of effect, inflicting on them a 2 point
penalty on die rolls.

The material component is a platinum tube of fine workmanship worth no
less than 500 gp.


*Seventh Level*

*Display*
(Evocation)
Range: 300 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting time: Special
Area of effect: Special
Saving throw: None
This special spell binds several spells together into a single display
or show. Display takes 1 round to cast for each spell that is bound. The
caster must have all spells to be displayed memorized or immediately
available on a scroll. The caster actually casts the spells during the
casting of the display spell. This spell has the following effects:

  * The timing, direction, areas of effect, and color of all spells
    bound are dictated by the caster. Spells do not have to be cast
    within the display spell in the same order that the caster desires
    the outcome of the display to be.
  * All spells can be designated as harm-ful or nonharmful. If
    nonharmful, then only the light or noise effects causes any-one
    undue distress. The spellcaster must know and use the difference in
    the ver-bal component as the results are exactly as the spell is
    cast. This is of particular importance for spells cast off scrolls
    (which are set and cannot be changed by verbal components).
  * The following spells can be bound by this spell: affect normal
    fires, cantrip, light, dancing lights, phantasmal force, sparkler,
    firecracker, improved phantasmal force, flare, goblin chaser,
    pyrotechnics, dragon whirl, Roman candle, spark fountain, starburst,
    bakarapper, fire burst, continual light, darkness 15’ radius, fog
    cloud, magic mouth, audible glamour, wall of fog, special effects,
    and sense shifting. Spells that manipulate the characteristics of
    another spell (range, duration, etc.) can also be bound if cast
    within the display spell.
  * Bound spells activate according to the program designated by the
    caster regardless of their original spell duration. 

The material component of this spell is a silver wand encrusted with
gems, the whole of which is worth at least 1,500 gp. The wand is not
consumed in the casting.


      === Dragon #228 ===

Far below Waterdeep, where the labyrinths of Undermountain twist and
spiral ever downward, treasure waits. One band of adventurers, braving
the dangerous tunnels, came back battered and shaken – recovering only a
book before escaping with their lives. But such a treasure it was – an
ancient snakeskin-bound spellbook written in elvish. Among the
enchantments inside were spells to attract powerful familiars. These
creatures, which bind themselves to the wizards who cast the spells,
imbue their mentors with wondrous abilities.

*Find Companion*
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Third Level
Range: 1 mile/level
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: Eight hours
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This enchantment is similar to the first level spell find famil- iar;
however, it brings to the caster an animal companion with enhanced
abilities. The creature attracted benefits a wizard by conveying its
sensory powers to its master, conversing with him, and serving as a
guard, scout, or spy. A wizard can have only one animal companion at a
time, though he also can have a normal familiar drawn by the first level
spell. The animal companion enters into a magical bond with the wizard
and will no longer age at the rate a similar normal ani-mal would. The
animal lives as long as its wizard mentor–unless it is killed earlier by
spells, phys-ical attacks, or neglect. In addition, like a familiar, the
animal companion gains the saving throws of its wizard-mentor. The
wizard gains an empathic link with the ani-mal and can issue it mental
commands at a distance of up to 10 miles.

Because it is enhanced through the casting of the find com- panion
spell, such an animal usually has more hit dice and a better Armor Class
than a creature like it would normally pos-sess. Its hit points are
improved also. In addition to rolling hit points based on the animal’s
hit dice, a number of hit points are added equal to the caster’s level –
to a maximum of 20. For example, a 7th-level wizard with a badger
companion would add 7 hit points to the creature’s total. A 9th-level
wizard would add 9.

Wizards can call upon these creatures to perform various tasks and
missions and can rely upon their innate magical abil-ities. Smarter than
a natural creature, companions easily can carry out basic orders and can
understand when their masters are in danger. All animal companions
initially have a Neutral alignment. Through association with the wizard,
however, the companion assumes the same alignment as its master.

If the companion is separated from its wizard mentor by more than 50
miles, the wizard loses one hit point a day until he dies (at which time
the companion also dies) or until the companion returns to within the
50-mile radius. These improved familiars gain the saving throws of their
wizard-masters.

If the companion is killed, the wizard must successfully roll an
immediate system shock check or lose two levels of experi-ence. If the
check is successful, the wizard loses one level of experience.

Companions vary in power and abilities, and the type of companion gained
is random. Roll 1d20 and consult the following chart:

1	Raccoon	11	Monkey
2	Badger	12	Snake
3	Winged serpent	13	Stag
4	Rat	14	Otter
5	Spider	15	Fox
6	Iguana	16	Wolf
7	Talking owl	17	Horse
8	Falcon	18	Cooshee
9	Vulture	19	Brown bear
10	Bat	20	Cheetah

Badger: HD 2+1; AC 3; THAC0 19; #AT 3; Dmg l–3/1–3/1–4; MV 9, burrow 6;
SZ S A sturdy burrowing animal with thick hair, a badger is a loyal and
fierce com-panion. A wizard who has this animal as a companion develops
a patch of white hair at the top of his head, just as a bad-ger has a
patch of white hair on the top of its head. Some wizards cover up this
patch so others will not learn about the presence of a badger companion.

A badger companion, once a day, can add 15 bonus hit points to its
wizard-master and confer to its master an AC of 3. The Armor Class
benefit does not apply if the wizard already has an AC of 3 or better.
This is done at the wizard’s request or if the badger senses its master
is in serious danger. The added hit points and Armor Class remain for
six turns (one hour). The badger does not lose any of its hit points,
nor does its Armor Class worsen in the process.

Bat: HD 1+2; AC 7; THAC0 20; #AT 1; DMG 1–3; MV 1; FI 24 (B); SZ T A bat
companion is small and has a wingspan of 6”–1’. Bats come in shades of
gray, brown, and black, and their wiz-ard companions’ hair quickly
matches the hue of the bats’ leathery wings. A bat companion is loathe
to be about during the day – unless in an underground set-ting. During
the daylight, its movement rate is cut in half. At night, because of its
sonar, it has the equivalent of infravision to 120’ and can ignore the
effects of fog and magical darkness. Once an evening, it allows its
wizard-master to fly with a movement rate of 12 (B), and to trans-form
himself into a bat with a flying rate of 24 (B). These abilities last
for 1d6 +2 turns (30 to 80 minutes).

Brown bear: HD 5+5; AC 5; THAC0 15; #AT 3; Dmg 1–6/1–6/1–8; SA hug; MV
12; S L An aggressive hunter that stands 9’ tall, a bear companion gifts
its master with the hunting proficiency at a score of 18. This companion
animal has such keen senses that three times a day he can detect
illusions within a 30’ radius. This information can be readily passed to
its wizard-master. A wizard with this com-panion grows long, thick,
shaggy hair.

Cheetah: HD 4; AC 4; THAC0 16; #AT 3; Dmg 1–3/1–3/1–8; SA rear claws 1–3
each; SD surprised only on a 1; MV 15, sprint 45; SZ M A sand-colored
cat that stands 4’–4½’ tall, the cheetah is a skilled hunter that can
naturally camouflage itself. It is surprised only on a 1. Unless
springing to the attack, it has a 90% chance to go unseen in woodland
set-tings, an 80% chance in farmlands or plains, and a 70% chance in
shadowy buildings or underground areas. The cheetah possesses the
following non-weapon proficiencies: hunting (15), track-ing (16), and
survival (16). When its wiz-ard- master is within 30’ of it in an
out-door setting, the effect is as if the wizard was wearing a cloak of
elvenkind. Further, while the wizard is within 10’ of the cat, he is
surprised only on a 1. The wizard companion develops cat’s-eyes.

Cooshee: HD 4+3; AC: 4; THAC0 16; #AT 3; Dmg 1–4/1–4/2–8; MV 15, sprint
45; SZ M Recognized as an elven dog, the cooshee only barks to warn its
wizard-master of danger. A cooshee companion can puss without truce at
will, as per the 1st level priest spell, and allows its wiz-ard to do
the same once a day. In addi-tion, the dog has infravision to 90’ can
detect secret or concealed doors on a 1–2 on a six-sided die, can move
silently in any woodland setting, and has the tracking nonweapon
proficiency at a score of 18. A cooshee companion has a very magical
nature, and once a day it can identify wizards within a 60’ radius. A
wizard who has this animal for a com-panion has brown patches on his back.

Falcon: HD 2; AC 4; THAC0 19; #AT 3; Dmg 1–3/1–3/1–3; MV 1, fly 36 (B);
SZ S Small, maneuverable birds of prey, falcons form fast bonds with
their mas-ters. Like the falcon, the wizard gains a taste for raw meat
and periodically has an urge to hunt for his dinner. A falcon companion,
once a day, allows its mas-ter to cast a 1st, 2nd, or 3rd level spell
through it. For example, a wizard with a falcon flying high overhead
could cast a magic missile or a web at a foe that would otherwise be out
of the wizard’s range.

Fox: HD 2; AC 6; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–6; MV 15; SZ S A member of the
dog family, foxes are noted for their bushy tails and large erect ears.
A wizard who gains a fox companion also gains a slight point to his
ears, making others suspect that there is a hint of elvish blood in his
lin- eage. Elves gain an even more pro-nounced point to their ears.
Especially clever and quick, foxes bestow improved movement, so that the
wizard has a maximum normal movement rate of 15.

Three times a day a fox companion is able to dimension door into trees
and bushes, similar to the way a dryad can dimension door into an oak
tree. The fox can stay in a tree or bush as long as it or its
wizard-master desires. Once a day the fox can confer one of its
dimension door uses to its master. However, the wizard can stay inside a
tree for only up to eight hours. At the end of that time, the wizard
finds himself expelled from the tree.

Horse: HD 4+4; AC 6; THAC0 16; #AT 2; Dmg 1–8/1–8; MV 15, gallop 30; SZ
L A companion horse is large and mus-cular, an impressive mount that is
tremendously loyal to its master. It can travel long distances without
tiring, and it can fend for itself, feeding on plants and grasses – even
locating food for its master, if necessary.

Twice a day, at its master’s request, a companion horse can determine
how many spells remain in a designated wiz-ard’s memory. However, it
cannot deter-mine the levels or kinds of spells. A wiz-ard with this
companion comes to favor apples, oats, and sugar.

Iguana: HD 2; AC 6; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–4; MV 9, climb 6; SZ S A
large herbivorous green lizard with a dorsal crest, an iguana companion
per-haps best serves as a guard for its wizard master or his home and
treasures. A wiz-ard who attracts this animal through the find companion
spell quickly loses an appetite for meat. Like his iguana com-panion,
the wizard now prefers fruits and vegetables.

Once a day, an iguana can be com-manded to guard an object or
individual. If the object or individual is threatened, the iguana
changes form to defend its charge. It retains this new form for 3d4
turns (30 minutes to two hours): HD 6; AC 0; THAC0 13; #AT 1; Dmg 4–16;
MV 18, climb 12; S M. In addition, once a day the iguana can cast a
strength spell upon its master. The spell grants the wizard 1d4
additional points of Strength, which lasts six turns (one hour).

Monkey: HD 2+1; AC 7; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–3; MV 9, climb 9; SZ S A
small primate with a long tail, a monkey is fiercely loyal to its
master. The wizard with this companion prefers to eat fruits, nuts, and
the occasional insect. The wizard gains the ability to climb trees at
90% and to climb walls at 50%.

Twice a day, the monkey can call upon an innate jump ability, as per the
spell, with each session lasting 10 rounds and allowing him to travel
much farther than would normally be possible. Also twice a day, the
monkey grants to its master the ability to speak with mon-keys, as per
the speak with animals spell. Each use of this ability lasts 1 turn.

Otter: HD 2; AC 4; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–3; MV 12, swim 18; SZ S Having
webbed and clawed feet and dark brown fur, an otter companion is a fast
and agile swimmer that gifts its mas-ter with the swimming proficiency
at a score of 18 and a swimming movement rate of 12. A wizard with such
a compan-ion has no desire to eat red meat. He prefers fish above all
other foods – raw or cooked – and goes out of his way to dine on
freshwater fish.

Twice a day, an otter companion can breathe water as if it were air for
up to four hours at a time. If it desires, or if the wizard requests it,
the otter can bestow one of those water-breathing uses upon its master.

Raccoon: HD 2; AC 8; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–4; MV 9, swim 9; SZ S A
small, flesh-eating mammal with a bushy, ringed tail, the raccoon
bestows on its wizard master a 40% chance to climb walls and an 80%
chance to climb trees. Like his animal friend, the wizard prefers to eat
meat – and only eats veg-etables or fruit when there is no meat
available. The raccoon is a timid animal and only ventures into
dangerous terrain when commanded.

Raccoons see well in darkness, and once a day – at its master’s request
– it can grant the wizard infravision to 60’. This ability lasts 1d4
hours. If its master already possesses infravision, the rac-coon
increases its master’s infravision range by 25% during this time.

Rat: HD 2; AC 6; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–3; MV 15, swim 6; SZ T A small
gnawing mammal with white, brown, or black fur, a rat serves as an
excellent spy. A wizard with this creature as his animal companion
quickly learns that his hair matches the color of his companion rat.

Once a day, the rat can assume gaseous form for one hour. If the rat
does not assume gaseous form at all during the course of a day, it can
instead confer upon its master the ability to turn gaseous. This request
must be made by the wizard.

Snake: HD 3+1; AC 5; THAC0 18; #AT 2; Dmg 1–3 (bite)/1–3 (constrict); MV
9; SZ S A 5’–6’ long constrictor, the snake causes its wizard-master’s
tongue to thin slightly and to fork. The wizard gains a permanent +2
bonus to saving throws vs. snake poison.

Twice a day, the snake can transform itself into a wooden staff. Each
transfor-mation lasts up to two hours. If used as a weapon, the staff
inflicts 1d6 hp dam-age. The staff has the snake’s Armor Class and can
withstand the snake’s hit points in damage before it – and the snake –
are destroyed. Once a day the wizard can meld form with the snake,
though not while it is a staff. During the meld, the snake assumes the
wizard’s hit points and movement rate. The wizard cannot cast spells
while melded with the snake. The meld lasts 1d4 +4 turns (50–80
minutes), with the wizard being able to break the meld earlier.

Spider: HD 1; AC 7; THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1–2; MV 12, web 9; SZ T The
smallest of animal companions, the spider is roughly 2”–3” across.
Attracting this creature through the find companion spell causes the
wizard’s eyes to become black and glossy. Those look-ing closely at him
see the faint outline of a spider in the center of his pupils. A spi-der
is small enough to slip into most places unseen, acting as an excellent
information-gatherer for its master.

Three times a day the spider can con-fer upon the wizard the spider
climbing ability, as per the spell. The duration of each use is 1–3
turns (10–30 minutes), and the wizard must communicate his desire for
the ability. In addition, the wiz-ard gains a +2 to his saving throws if
a web spell is cast in his vicinity.

Stag: HD 4+2; AC 6; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg1–8; MV24; SZ M As tall as a
horse, though lacking some of the bulk, the stag is an elegant-looking
companion. It can be used as a mount by an unarmored wizard-master.
Three times a day, at its master’s request, a stag can determine the
alignment of a designated individual who is within 60 yards. The wizard
with this companion grows twin nubs on the top of his head, roughly
where antlers would be on a stag’s head.

Talking owl: HD 3+2; AC 2; THAC0 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1–4/1–4/1–2; MV 1 fly 36
(B); SZ S A diminutive bird of prey with a large head and a small hooked
bill, the owl can fly at any time of the day, though it is clear the
bird prefers to be about in the evenings. Its master soon feels more at
ease when the sun sets, and he acquires a taste for small rodents. A
talking owl speaks the language of its master, plus six additional tongues.

The bird can detect good at will six times a day. However, if it forgoes
any of the uses of that ability in a day, it can transfer them to its
wizard-companion. For example, if a talking owl decided not to use its
detect good ability during the course of a day, it could grant its
master six uses of the detect good spell. The owl is immune to the
following spells: cause fear, charm person, command, friends, hyp-
notism, forget, hold person, ray of enfeeble- ment, scare, and fear.

Vulture: HD 2+1; AC 5; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; MV 3, fly 27 (E); SZ M
Scavengers with bodies roughly 2’ long and wingspans of up to 7’,
vultures are far from the most attractive of animal companions. They
have greasy-looking blue and black feathers over their bodies, save for
their heads, which are bald and pink-skinned. A wizard with such a
com-panion also is bald. Because vultures have a knack for finding dead
creatures, three times a day they can detect undead: within a 120’
radius. They suffer only half-damage from physical attacks of undead
creatures, and they ignore the following effects caused by undead aging,
level draining, fear, mummy rot, and paralyzation. A vulture bestows
upon its companion the ability to ignore one aging or one level-draining
attack per day. For example, a wizard with a vulture companion would
ignore the first attack from a vampire that would normally cause a loss
of two experience levels. However, a second attack by the undead would
result in the level drain.

Winged serpent: HD 4+4; AC 5; THAC0 15; #AT 1; Dmg 14; MV 12, fly 18
(B); SZ L Colorful snakes with hues of green, blue, purple, yellow, and
orange, these companions are 8’–10’ long and have wingspans of 10’–15’.
The bite of a winged serpent is venomous, inflicting 1–4 hp damage the
first round and 2–8 hp damage the following two rounds, save vs. poison
for half damage. Three times a day the serpent can use a breath weapon,
which consists of a cloud of dancing sparks 10’ in diameter. All those
within the cloud suffer 2–16 hp damage, save for one-half, and the
sparks ignite exposed flammable materials. The ser-pents are especially
vulnerable to fire-based attacks, suffering a –2 saving throw. If they
fail their saving throw against a fire attack, its wings are
inciner-ated. The serpents cannot use their breath weapon while
wingless. The ser-pents are immune to all electrical attacks, and they
are able to regenerate their wings in 1–3 days. If they tuck their wings
in close to their bodies they can spider climb at will. Once per day the
ser-pent can transfer its breath weapon to its master. The wizard with
this companion must spend 100 gp a month on special fruits and nuts for
the winged serpent. After a few months in the company of this creature,
the wizard’s diet starts to mirror the serpent’s.

Dmg 2–5; MV 38; SZ S Wolf: HD 4; AC 6; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Standing between
3’–4’ high at the shoulder, this companion confers upon its
wizard-master a permanent +1 bonus to saving throws vs. charm attacks.
The wolf also enjoys this benefit. In addition, twice a day the animal
can turn itself into a worg with these statistics: HD 5; AC 5; THAC0 16;
#AT 1; Dmg 2–8; MV 18; SZ M (4’–7’). The form lasts 2d4 turns.

When in the presence of its wolf com-panion, the wizard is able to speak
with wolves, as a speak with animal spell. A wizard with a wolf
companion becomes almost exclusively a meat eater.


*Find Minion*
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sixth Level
Range: 1 mile/level
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 12 hours
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This enchantment is similar to the first level spell find familiar and
the third level spell find companion; however it brings to the caster a
minion with powerful abili-ties. The creature attracted benefits a
wiz-ard by conveying its sensory powers to its master, conversing with
him, and serv-ing as a guard, scout, or spy. A wizard can have only one
minion at a time, though he also can have a normal familiar drawn by the
1st-level spell and a com-panion drawn by the third level spell. The
minion enters into a magical bond with the wizard and no longer ages at
the rate a similar normal animal would. The ani-mal will live as long as
the wizard unless it is killed earlier by spells, physical attacks, or
neglect. In addition, like a familiar or companion, the minion gains the
saving throws of its wizard-mentor. The wizard gains an empathic link
with the minion and can issue it mental com-mands at a distance of up to
30 miles. In addition to rolling hit points based on a minion’s hit
dice, a number of hit points are added based on the wizard’s level, to a
maximum of 20 bonus hit points. For example, a 12th-level wizard with an
owl-bear minion would add 12 hit points to the creature’s total. A
16th-level wizard would add 16.

Wizards can call upon these creatures to perform various tasks and
missions and can rely upon their special abilities. Minions easily carry
out basic orders and understand when their masters are in danger. If the
minion is separated from the wizard by more than 100 miles, the wizard
loses one hit point a day until the wizard dies (at which time the
minion also dies) or until the minion returns to within the 100-mile
radius. If the minion is killed, the wizard must successfully roll an
immediate system shock check or loose two points of Intelligence. If the
check is successful, the wizard loses one point of Intelligence. Minions
vary in power and abilities, and those attracted by the spell are
determined randomly. More information on each minion can be found in the
Monstrous MANUAL™ tome. Roll 1d12 and consult the following table.

1	Owl bear
2	Elven Cat
3	Blink Dog
4	Umberhulk
5	Unicorn
6	Pseudodragon
7	Displacer Beast
8	Peryton
9	Pegasus
10	Dragonne
11	Hippogriff
12	Griffon

Blink Dog: HD 4; AC 5; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1–6; MV 12; SZ M A blink dog
minion looks like a stocky mutt or mongrel, making their kind diffi-cult
to distinguish or recognize as special. A wizard with this minion has
unkempt, shaggy hair. Blink dogs have their own complex language of
barks and yelps, which their masters can understand. These creatures
have an innate ability to blink, with no possibility of ending up inside
something solid. Roughly 75% of the time they are able to attack targets
from the rear because of this ability. Twice a day, a blink dog minion
grants to its wizard master the ability to blink, as per the spell for
six rounds.

Displacer Beast: HD 6; AC 4; THAC0 15; #AT 2; Dmg 2–8/2–8; MV 15; SZ L
Looking like a puma with two tenta-cles, a displacer beast minion causes
its master to have jet-black hair. This crea-ture retains its lawful
evil alignment, no matter the alignment of its master – who it
faithfully serves. Such a minion can: displace itself, allowing it to
appear about 3’ from its actual location; make all saving throws as if
it were a 12th-level fighter; cause attacking opponents to suffer a –2
penalty. A displacer beast grants to lawful neutral and lawful evil
wizard-masters the ability to displace themselves 1’–2’ from where they
are actually standing for up to one hour a day. This ability acts
effectively as a cloak of displacement, which is listed in the DUNGEON
MASTER® Guide.

Dragonne: HD 9; AC 6 flying, 2 ground; THAC0 11; #AT; Dmg 1–8/1–8/ 3–18;
MV 15, fly 9 (E); SZ M A dragonne companion resembles a lion with long,
feathery eyebrows and large, webbed wings. A wizard-master also gains
overlong, feathery eyebrows. Three times a day this minion can emit a
terrible roar that causes weakness in creatures within 120’ of it unless
they make a successful saving throw vs. para-lyzation. Any creature
within 30’ of the roar is deafened for 2–12 rounds, and all those
hearing the roar suffer –1 on attack rolls. A dragonne’s master is
immune to the effects of the roar. A dragonne minion is more powerful
than its brethren. While they can fly for 1–3 turns at a time, the
minion can fly for 2–8 turns.

Elven Cat: HD 3+6; AC 4; THAC0 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1–2/1–2/1–3; MV 18, swim
9; SZ T Looking like a normal house cat, often with gray or brown fur
and black stripes, these minions have their own language and also
understand the elvish tongue. Unlike other cats, they love water, and
they are frequently found swimming or playing in streams and puddles
when not performing a task or mission These minions are surprised only
on a 1; impose a –5 to opponents’ surprise roll; enjoy a 99.9% chance to
move silently and a 90% chance to hide in wilderness areas; and can leap
20’ with ease. Further, they have limited ESP, can use enlarge and trip
once a day, and can employ reduce and tree twice a day– at the 9th level
of ability. Enlarge doubles the minion’s Hit Dice and damage; tree
allows it to assume the shape of a tree limb. Once a day, they confer to
their master the ability to use the enlarge or tree spell. This does not
count against a wizard’s spell allotment, though it pre-vents the minion
from using the chosen ability that day. A wizard with an elven cat as a
minion develops a taste for swimming and playing in the water.

Griffon: HD 7; AC 3; THAC0 13; #AT 3; Dmg 1–4/1–4/2–16; MV 12, fly 30
(C, D mounted); SZ L Ferocious avians that look like the meld of a lion
and a giant eagle, these minions, which can serve as mounts, are prized
and powerful. A wizard with this minion either has his hair turn a
golden brown, or his skin (50% chance for either.) Further, a wizard
feels compelled to provide the minion at least one horse, Pony or donkey
each week. In exchange, the griffon grants its wizard-master the ability
to once a week control horses, as per the animal control potion. The
wizard can influence the emotions and drives of 1d4+4 horses for 1d4+4
turns (10 to 80 minutes).

Hippogriff: HD 3+3; AC 5; THAC0 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1–6/1–6/1–10; MV 18, fly
36 (C, D mounted); SZ L This monstrous hybrid of an eagle and a horse is
one of the more prized minions. It will readily lay down its life for
its wizard-master. Because of the bond established, the wizard cannot
eat until he is certain his hippogriff is sated– even if that means
offering the animal his food. Once a day it can change its form to that
of a light riding horse, a shape it can hold for 3d6 turns (30 min-utes
to three hours), and twice a day it can assume the form of a
regular-sized eagle, a shape it can hold for 2d4 turns (20–80 minutes).
The hippogriff gifts the wizard with the ability to speak with horses
and to speak with eagles each once a day, as per the speak with animals
spell.

Owlbear: HD 5+2; AC 5; THAC0 15; #AT 3; Dmg 1–6/1–6/2–12; SA hug; MV 12;
SZ L Appearing as a cross between a giant owl and a bear, these minions
weigh in excess of 1,000 pounds and are often aggressive and vicious. A
minion owl-bear will not fight to the death unless it is commanded to do
so by its wizard-master or unless its master is in serious danger.
Though these minions prefer heavily-wooded forests, they usually stay at
their masters’ sides – no matter where he travels. Unlike other
owlbears, these minions do not lay eggs. However, like their brethren,
they hibernate in the win-ter – provided they and their wizard-masters
live in lands that have such cli-mates. A wizard with this minion
devel-ops a small crest of yellow-brown hair at the top of his head,
mirroring the owl-bear’s crest. A minion owl bear possess-es one special
ability: once a day, for 2d4+4 turns (one to two hours), it can assume
the form of a giant owl or a brown bear. It retains its normal hit
points and Armor Class during the trans-formation.

Pegasus: HD 4; AC 6; THAC0 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1–8/1–8/1–3; MV 24, fly 48 (C,
D mounted); SZ L A formidable winged steed, a minion Pegasus can be
found in hues of white, gray, tan, and dark brown. Such a minion can
understand most human common tongues. A Pegasus remains chaotic good,
and over the course of a few months; its wizard-master’s alignment
changes to chaotic good. A Pegasus min-ion can attack an opponent with
its rear hooves, inflicting 2–12 hp damage; dive from 50’ or higher at
+2 to attack, with its front hooves inflicting double damage; and detect
evil and detect good in a 60- yard range at will. The Pegasus’
wizard-master is granted the ability to cast detect evil and detect good
each once a day. A wizard with a Pegasus minion is only able to eat
fruit, grass, and other plants.

Peryton: HD 4; AC 7; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg 4–16; MV 12, fly 21 (C); SZ M
A peryton minion looks like a giant dark green eagle with a blue-black
stag’s head, obsidian antlers, and red-orange eyes. Typically an evil
creature, this min-ion’s alignment quickly changes to match that of its
wizard-master. In return, its master’s eyes become orange-red. Such a
minion gains +2 on all attack rolls, is immune to nonmagical weapons,
and can plunge from several hundred feet at a target for an additional
+2 attack bonus. A wizard with a peryton minion gains an immunity to
nonmagi-cal weapons once a day for 1d6 turns (10 minutes to one hour).

Pseudodragon: HD 2; AC 2; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1–3; SA poison sting; MV
6, fly 24 (B); SZ T Resembling a miniature red dragon, a pseudodragon
minion is +4 on attack rolls. Its poison is quite potent – all those who
fail a saving throw against it fall into a state of catalepsy that lasts
1–6 days. The creature’s chameleon-like power enables it to blend with a
forest back-ground, giving it an 80% chance to be effectively invisible.
A pseudodragon has infravision to 60’, can see invisible crea-tures and
objects, and has a 35% magic resistance.

Once a day, a pseudodragon minion will grant to its wizard master
infravision of 60’ for 3d4 turns (30 minutes to two hours) and the
ability to see invisible objects and creatures for 1d4 turns (10–40
minutes). These abilities are grant-ed when the wizard requests them. A
wiz-ard with this minion will grow a circular band of red scales about
his wrists or ankles (50% chance for either location).

Umberhulk: HD 8+8; AC 2; THAC0 11; #AT 3; Dmg 3–12/3–12/1–10; MV 6,
bur-row 1–6; SZ L An umberhulk retains its chaotic evil alignment, even
though it will obey its wizard-master, who can be of any align-ment.
Wizards with these minions have eyes that look like blackened circles. A
powerful subterranean creature, the umberhulk prefers to remain in dark
confines, where it has a greater chance to surprise opponents. Like
other umber-hulks, a minion can easily bite through hide or bone, cause
opponents under-ground or in dark chambers to suffer a –5 penalty to
surprise rolls; burrow; dig through stone; cause cave-ins; and cause
confusion per the spell – if a victim looks into its eyes. This minion
has infravision to 90’ and grants an evilly-aligned wizard-master the
same infravi-sion ability. If the wizard is evil and is an elf or
half-elf, his infravision range is increased to 180’.

Unicorn: HD 4+4; AC 2; THAC0 15; #AT 3; Dmg 1–6/1–6/1–12; MV 2; SZ L A
unicorn minion retains its chaotic good alignment, no matter the
align-ment of its wizard-master and will unerr-ingly serve a master of
any alignment. Such minions can sense an enemy up to 240 yards away,
cause opponents to suf-fer –6 on their surprise rolls, gain a +2 bonus
to hit, charge an opponent with its horn for 3–36 points of damage, and
teleport themselves and their wizard-master once a day up to 360 yards
away. These minions can never be charmed or held by spells, they are
immune to death spells, and they make saving throws as if they were 11th
level wizards. A unicorn minion will gift to a goodly-aligned
wizard-master a perma-nent immunity to charm person or hold person
spells – the choice is the wizard’s Because of the wizard’s close ties
to its minion, his hair becomes stark white, matching the hair color of
the unicorn.


      === Dragon #238 ===

*Spell Echo*
(IlIusion/Phantasm)
Level: 1
Components: S
Range: 0
Casting Time: 1
Duration: 1-2 rounds
Save: None
Area of Effect: Special
This spell creates a silent illusory scene that depicts the operation
(unleashing) of a previously-launched magic. The duration and size of
the scene varies according to the nature of that previous spell’s
effect, but it always includes its caster (or magical item acti-vator)
if he was present at the time of the original magic taking effect, and
any creatures in the immediate vicinity who were affected by the spell.

Any amount of time can elapse between the original spell and the
cast-ing of the echo, but the caster of the echo must occupy some part
of the precise area of effect of the original spell, or the spot in
which its caster or activator stood at the time, or the spell fails
with-out effect. If multiple spells have taken effect in the area or
have been cast from the spot chosen by the echo-caster, the caster is
made aware of the race of the caster or activator of each, the school or
sphere of each magic, and the approxi-mate time, and must choose to
display just one of the previous magics from that information. Multiple
spell echo spells can be cast in the same spot to “sort through”
multiple previous enchantments, without affecting the “recalls.” This
spell works only in Realmspace.

A spell echo is purely an illusion, but it is known to be a true
illusion, not suscepti-ble to alteration by any known magic — and
therefore acceptable as evidence of who did what to whom in the past.

*Scourge of Stars*
(Alteration, Evocation)
Level: 3
Components: V, S, M
Range: 0
Casting Time: 6
Duration: 12 rounds
Save: None
Area of Effect: Special
This spell brings into being a weight-less whip extending from an
appendage of the caster. It need not be grasped by the wizard (who can
hold other items in a hand that it may extend from), but it does
preclude other spellcasting on the part of its caster that requires
somatic and mate- rial components. The whip appears as a band of shadow
dotted with thousands of tiny, twinkling motes of light, and it strikes
silently. It can’t be grasped or snagged on things, and its reach is the
length of the casters appendage plus 10’.

A scourge of stars strikes with, a THAC0 6 points, better than that of
its caster, and it deals 2d4 hp damage per round. Any damage it inflicts
is bestowed on its caster as extra or healing hit points (any excess hit
points vanish when the scourge does, but until then, all damage suffered
by the caster is taken first from these extra points). The scourge may
strike only once in a round, can never harm its caster, and has no
tangible existence (i.e., it can’t be tied to any- thing, or be cut by
an opponent, or used to entangle a weapon).

The material component of a scourge of stars is a string of nine
diamonds or other clear, colorless faceted gemstones of any type and
value. The gems must be pierced and have a single, continu- ous chain or
cord running through each stone to link all of them. Other gems and
adornments may be present, but all, are consumed in the spellcasting.

*Firedart*
(Evocation)
Level: 4
Components: V, S, M
Range: 300 yards
Casting Time: 2
Duration: 2 rounds
Save: ½
Area of Effect: Special
This spell brings into being one fiery dagger per level of its caster.
These look like 4”-long knives whose blades are wavering tongues of
flame and which flicker into existence around the casters head and
shoulders. They can’t harm the caster who creates them or cause harm to
any non-living material (they can’t ignite wood, cloth, paper, or any-
thing else) but are deadly to living and undead targets.

These firedarts fly at targets chosen by the caster. They must be
visible to the caster as spellcasting begins, but they need not be so
after; the firedarts follow and seek them, at MV Fly 20 (A), THAC0 4,
two attacks allowed (the second only if the first misses). Contact with
any magical barrier or spell effect, or passing out of spell range,
causes a firedart to vanish instantly and harmlessly. A firedart that
misses on both its attack attempts fizzles out and vanishes, harmlessly,
wasted. One that strikes deals 1d4 hp piercing damage and is quenched,
its magic expended. The tar- get is allowed a saving throw vs. spell,
and if (and only if) that save fails, the dart also inflicts 1d4+1 hp
fire damage.

A caster can elect to hurl each firedart at a different target, or group
them in attacks against various targets, or even “save” some to attack
on the second round of the spell. All of the firedarts van- ish when
they miss or hit, or if they haven’t been fired when the spell expires
(the firedart spell ends instantly if the caster casts another spell
during that second round). Decisions about the tar- gets of firedarts
saved until the second round need not be made until that sec- ond round,
but the targets are still limited to creatures visible to the caster
when the spell is first cast.

A common use of this spell is to strike out at a group of warriors
attacking the caster, saving some firedarts to send against warriors who
are still attacking after the first “wave” of firedarts have struck.

The material components of a firedart spell are a fragment of flint and
a feather. The feathers may be of any size and from any source.

*Turnblade*
(Alteration)
Level: 4
Components: V, S, M
Range: Special
Casting Time: 7
Duration: 8 rounds
Area of Effect: One weapon
Save None
This spell allows its caster to transform any weapon (any object that
one being can lift and wield, that has in the past been used to cause
damage to a living or undead creature, whether it is a rock or a garden
stake or a broadsword) into any weapon of his choice.

The “new” weapon must be a copy of an item the caster has personally
seen before. Its size, appearance, composition and construction (e.g.,
silver-coated, non-ferrous, or specific to a left- or right-handed user)
conform to the turnblade-casters desires, but the new weapon has no
magical properties beyond having +3 bonuses on all attack and dam-age
rolls. Its base damage is that of the weapon-form chosen, regardless of
size. For damage purposes, treat all weapons not easily classified as a
standard weapon type as either a quarterstaff or a club, depending on
rough overall size.

This spell is most commonly used to transform a dagger into a long sword
+3 or a two-handed sword, or to turn a dagger into an axe when the
latter weapon is needed as a tool (i.e., to chop through a door to
freedom). The weapon can be wielded by anyone (even against the caster,
or in defiance of the caster’s wishes) and — even if the caster
deliberately chooses to forego the magical bonuses the spell affords —
is considered a +3 magical weapon for purposes of determining what
creatures it can hit.

A turnblade spell can’t be ended before the weapon it affects has
existed in its transformed state for eight full rounds. The weapon
affected is the material component of the spell — and it is consumed by
the magic, vanishing forever when the spell expires.

*Backshift*
(Alteration, Necromancy)
Level: 8
Components: V, S, M
Range: 30 yards
Casting Time: 1 turn
Duration: Special
Save: Special
Area of Effect: One creature
This spell forces its target (who must be visible to the caster when
casting begins) back into previous body shapes the target has assumed.
If it is cast on a creature that has never changed its shape, the spell
is wasted. Purely illusion-ary disguises, and minor changes to the
nature of a targets body such as in growing and aging do not count as
“changes in shape.”

The backshift spell forces its target back into the last three body
shapes it has assumed that weren’t the targets own. If the target has
taken fewer than three shapes since birth, the spell dis-plays all forms
it has taken. The target creature appears into these shapes in reverse
chronological order (that is, the most recently-taken form first) for
one round each. If there are fewer than three shapes available, the
spell cycles through them, never including the form the creature was
using when first struck by the backshift.

There is no saving throw against this initial part of the backshift, and
this spell can force creatures into shapes not adapted for survival in
the current sur-roundings (such as aquatic forms, on dry land). Target
activities, such as spell-casting and weapon use, may be ham-pered or
aided by the forms taken (dropping weapons is common), but the backshift
spell itself doesn’t prohibit them.

At the end of the third round, the vic-tim of a backshift is allowed a
saving throw vs. spell. If the save succeeds, the spell ends, and the
creature is instantly returned to the form it had at first con-tact with
the spell.

If the save fails, the caster of the spell can freely choose any one of
the four forms (the initial one and the three forced “returns”) as the
target creature’s new form. As the magic expires, it puts the target
creature into the chosen form. This change is permanent unless altered
by later magics, though the chosen form isn’t the creature’s “true”
form, a simple dispel magic causes the creature to revert to its true form.

Once a backshift has been cast, its caster is free to undertake other
activi-ties during later rounds (while its victim is undergoing the
spell effects). The death of the caster frees the target from the
backshift immediately, but move-ment out of spell range does not.

The material components of a back- shift are a strand of spiderweb, a
whole, raw egg and a fragment of shell from an egg that has hatched.
Both the whole egg and the shell fragment may come from any egg-laying
creature, and they need not both be from the same indi-vidual or even
species.

This spell was originally developed to unmask individuals who employed
shape-changing magics to conceal their identities when they openly
carried out crimes. For safety reasons, a backshift spell is usually
memorized by at least one senior participant prior to any “twenty
transformations” game.

*Mystra’s Unraveling*
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Level: 9
Components: V, S
Range: 0
Casting Time: 1
Duration: Instantaneous
Save: None
Area of Effect: 30’ radius
This spell instantly destroys all spells and enchantments linked to,
focused on, or held within items. Imprisoned beings are set free,
magically-preserved items are exposed to all the aging they’ve been
protected from, and so on. Magical items automatically lose their
powers, and barriers and wards connected to doors, anchor points, or
other solid things collapse. Items connected to other planes lose those
connections; if the link- ages are to non-living items, those items are
yanked fully into the plane wherein the unraveling is cast. All portions
of a large item are affected if any part of it is within range of the
unraveling.

This magic has no effect on magical items touched by the caster during
cast-ing or carried on the caster’s person. It also leaves untouched
spell effects not attached to an item, including those that originated
in magical item discharges. An unraveling reveals the multiple pow-ers
of artifacts (to the mind of its caster only) in precise and fine
detail, but it doesn’t affect or harm them — beyond the fact that its
touch won’t activate an artifact, regardless of the artifacts nor-mal
conditions for activation.

Alternatively, an unraveling can be cast with a different incantation
word. In such cases, it leaves magical items and artifacts completely
untouched, and it works only against enchantments. It can affect such
magics regardless of their age and origin, even if they are quies-cent,
awaiting later activation, within an area or a being. Such an unraveling
suc-cessfully destroys multiple linked enchantments without triggering
their magics, penetrates all known barriers (including prismatic effects
and antimagic shells), and is roughly the equivalent of four dispel
magic spells.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Spells From FR11: Dwarves Deep

/These spells were originally all clerical spells specific to the
Dwarven Clerics in Dwarves Deep. However some of them have made the
crossover to Wizard spells in the A.F.A.L. campaign. They are presented
here. Priest and Wizard spell levels _and casting times_ are the same
unless otherwise noted./

*Hurl Rock*
(Alteration)
/Reversible/
Sphere: Combat
Level: 2
Components: V, S, M
Range: 10 yards/level
Casting Time: 2
Duration: 1 round
Save: None
Area of Effect: One rock (see below)

This spell allows the caster to suddenly and violently use /telekinesis/
on a loose rock, using it as a missile. Only stone can be used, either
natural stone or petrified objects. The stone must be loose; it cannot
be a block that is part of a wall, or a piece of a rock face or ceiling.
The rocky projectile leaps from its resting position to attack with the
caster's THAC0. The "range" of this spell refers to the distance between
the caster and the potential stone missile. The projectile can leap up
to 45 feet vertically and up to 45 feet horizontally. Determine where
missiles land using the "Grenade-Like Missile Effects" table in the DMG.

The caster can move up to 2 cubic feet/level. Rocks that are too large
will be felt as such; the caster can choose another rock in the same
round, but if it is also too large, the spell is wasted.

At times it will be important to know what damage the missile itself
sustains after being hurled; for instance, if it is a fragile, valuable
object, or, say, a petrified companion. The missile itself suffers 2d4
points of damage from its use in this spell and double that if it falls
more than 50 feet in the process. This shatters the missile if it is
brought to zero hit points. Assume rocky missiles to have an average hp
total of 6 per 2 cubic feet, so that a rock of the maximum size that a
3rd level caster can move (6 cubic feet) will have 18 hp.

Rocky missiles that shatter spray shrapnel; all creatures within 10 feet
of the landing site of a missile must save vs. spell or suffer 1d4+1
points of damage.

Any item struck by the missile or its shrapnel (see above) must save vs.
"crushing blow". A being struck by the missile is hurt as follows:

Rock Volume
(in cubic feet) 	Damage
1-2	2d4
3-4	2d8
5-6	2d10
7-8	3d8
9-10	3d10
> 10	4d12

The reverse of this spell, /rock shield/, allows the caster to deflect
rocky missiles of all types and from all sources. The shield remains in
effect for one round/level, infallible against all missiles whose edges
contain or are made of stone. Once cast, it does not require continued
concentration or further action. The deflections are in directions
uncontrollable by the user of the shield. Use the "Grenade-Like Missile
Effects" table, noting that deflections may hit companions of the
/shield/-user.

The material components of this spell are a suitable rock to serve as
the projectile, a tiny pebble, held in the caster's hand and not
consumed in the casting. The reverse of the spell requires two small
pebbles and a translucent piece of glass, mica, ice, crystal, or a gem.

*Rockburst*
(Alteration)
Sphere: Combat
Level: 2
Components: V, S
Range: 10 yards/level
Casting Time: 2
Duration: 1 round
Save: Special
Area of Effect: 1 cubic foot/level

This spell allows the caster to cause a boulder or rockpile to suddenly
explode, propelling jagged shards in all directions. If the desired
spell focus is larger than the volume the caster can effect, only part
of it will fly about.

Shrapnel endangers all beings within 20 feet of the spell focus. Beings
within 10 feet must save vs. spell for half damage. Beings between 10
and 20 feet distant who save successfully are allowed a second saving
throw. If both rolls are successful, they avoid all damage (due to luck,
dodging, and cover). If only one roll is successful, they take half
damage. The presence of cover or armor does not automatically lessen
damage due to the unpredictability of ricochets, bounces, and the like.

The shrapnel does a base damage of 1d4+1 points per level of the caster
(i.e. 1d4+1 points per cubic foot of rock). In rare cases, the explosion
will remove enough rock to cause an avalanche or cave-in, but such
results can rarely be deliberately caused with this spell.

*Glowglory*
(Alteration, Evocation)
Sphere: Combat
Level: 3
Components: V, S, M
Range: Touch
Casting Time: 3
Duration: Special
Save: None
Area of Effect: Secial

This spell allows the caster to unleash /beams of power/ from
/glowstones/, or make normal stone (in a surface area of up to one
square foot per level of the caster) radiate a /continual light/
radiance, for 1 turn/level.

*Lesser Guardian Hammer*
(Invocation)
Sphere: Guardian
Level: 3
Components: V, S, M
Range: Touch (of area to be guarded)
Casting Time: 3
Duration: Special
Save: None
Area of Effect: Special

A /lesser guardian hammer/, is an invisible, hammer-shaped field of
force that appears when a guarded door, lock, threshold, or area is
disturbed (even years after the spell was cast). When activated, it
charges through the air to strike the living thing nearest to the
disturbed guardian area, or any being in the area (if there is more than
one, determine target randomly).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Spells Found in Undermountain

*Whirling Blade*
(Evocation)
Level: 2
Components: V, S
Range: 0
Casting Time: 2
Duration: 1 round/level
Save: None
Area of Effect: Special

This spell creates a shimmering, translucent silvery blade of force
equal in dimensions and damage to a long sword. It orbits one of the
casters hands and strikes once per round as a magical weapon ( +1 to
attack and damage rolls).

The blade is weightless, and passes through metallic things as though
they did not exist, without affecting them.

Metal armor is discounted when determining armor class against blade
attacks; i.e. targets receive dexterity and magical bonuses, but not
metal shield and mail protection. Beings wearing leather armor have a
base armor class of 8, studded leather also counting as AC 8 against
blade attacks; creatures with naturally tough hides or natural armor
plating have their usual armor classes!

A whirling blade also passes through the body of its caster without harm
- the caster is never imperilled by his own weapon. The blade cannot
break, but is destroyed instantly by contact with a wall of force,
anti-magic shell, or dispel magic spell.

A whirling blade emits a continuous, high-pitched shrieking noise -
vibrations of magical force that cannot be magically silenced - and
therefore cannot be used with any measure of stealth. Note that the
caster can hold or carry normal weapons and other inorganic objects in
the hand wielding the whirling blade without hampering its functioning,
unless the carried objects are so large as to obstruct the casters view
of foes, or so heavy (10 pounds or more) as to hamper or significantly
slow arm movement. This magical weapon exists for the duration given or
until the caster concentrates on casting another spell, whereupon it
vanishes. Wielding and actively using a weapon also disrupts the spell,
canceling its effects prematurely.

*Energy Transformation*
(Alteration)
Level: 6
Components: V, S, M
Range: 0
Casting Time: 4 rounds
Duration: Permanent
Save: None
Area of Effect: 40' radius sphere

This complex spell creates a permanent, undetectable magical field. It
absorbs magical discharges, such as spell effects and item functions,
and uses them to power (that is, to extend the duration of) an existing
magical spell or protection, with which the energy transformation is
linked. The casting of the transformation must name this existing magic
it is powering, and must also outline any desired limits on the
absorption area of the transformation, within the limits of the area of
effect given above. The spell field does not affect any magical items or
weapons unless they are using a spell-like effect when they contact the
field; in such cases, the energy transformation field absorbs the spell
effect but has no further effect on the item or weapon.

The field absorbs spells cast through its area of effect, and it absorbs
spells of all types that come in contact with the field save abjuration
and conjuration/summoning spells. Any external magical effects on
weapons or items will be slightly hampered by the field; for example,
glowing weapons or a continual light cast on a torch will visibly dim
and flicker while passing through an energy transformation field.

An example of the use of this spell would be a field around an icon,
using spell energy to recharge a magical item within the icon itself.
Only a Mordenkainens disjunction, limited wish or wish spell will
destroy a single such field - a dispel magic will be absorbed by it,
without having effect.

The material components of this spell include no less than three
permanent magic items (which are consumed in the casting), three drops
of the casters blood, the eye of any living creature, and a powdered
diamond of not less than 5,000 gp value.

*The Curse of Forgetfulness*
(Enchantment/Charm) Reversible
Level: 7
Components: V, S
Range: Touch
Casting Time: 2
Duration: Permanent
Save: None
Area of Effect: One creature

By means of this spell, a wizard bestows a special curse on another
wizard which destroys the ability to comprehend certain spells. Lost
spells cannot be memorized or even cast from a scroll; the mind of the
victim of this curse simply cannot understand and enact them.

Spells known to a victim are lost at random, beginning with spells
currently memorized. One spell is lost instantly, and an additional
spell is lost every ten days thereafter, until the victim forever loses
all spell casting ability. A remove curse will not affect this special
curse; a heal, limited wish or stronger spell is necessary.

The reverse of this spell, bestow remembrance, reverses the effects of a
curse of forgetfulness or a forget spell, Note that a successful to hit
roll is required to confer either version of this spell upon an
unwilling being.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Other Spells

*Unseelie Servant*
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 2
Components: V, S, (M)
Range: 0
Casting Time: 2 rounds
Duration: 12 hours + 3 hours/level
Save: None
Area of Effect: 60' radius

The unseelie servant is similar to the unseen servant in that it
conjures a type of magical automaton to perform simple taskes for the
caster. Like the unseen servant, the unseelie servant can perform simple
tasks like cleaning and fetching small objects but cannot fight. Unlike
the unseen servant, the unseelie servant is visible and has a distinct
form. It appears as an eight-inch, androgynous winged humanoid composed
of magical darkness. The unseelie servant can walk at a speed of 6 or
fly at 15 (MC B). It can fly with objects up to one pound, walk with up
to three pounds, or drag an object of up to 6 pounds. If it moves more
than 40 feet + 5 ft./level away from the caster, the servant is
dispelled - it will follow commands that have this result.

When it is not actively engaged in some task for its caster, the
unseelie servant will sit on the caster's left shoulder and amuse
itself. It cannot be discouraged from this behavior except by giving it
another task to perform. If there is something else on the caster's left
shoulder (ex. a parrot) the unseelie servant will sit on top of it. When
sitting, the unseelie servant can rest on the point of a needle without
harm. Otherwise, it is AC 3, has 6hp, and uses the item saving throw
table. The unseelie servant avoids contact with the skin of living
creatures other than the caster's left shoulder when not commanded
otherwise and takes 1hp of damage per round from such contact. Those who
have managed to touch one say it feels slick and cold. The unseelie
servant is utterly silent. It is said that even grabbing it and smacking
it against a bell until it is destroyed produces no sound.

When commanding the unseelie servant, the caster must address it by name
in the caster's native tongue. When /Unseelie Servant/ is first cast,
the caster must choose a name for the servant. For unknown reasons, this
name must be at least three syllables, start with K or Q, contain at
least 1 X and end in Y (ex. "Kisgixy", "Quaxaty", "Kaxexixoxuxy".
Likewise, if the caster conjures more than one unseelie servant at a
time, each needs its own name. If the servant is destroyed by damage, a
new name must be chosen at the next casting. The material component, a
piece of jet of at least 20gp value, is only needed when a new servant
is being named.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Libraries 	Go to Libraries Page 	Libraries

<http://flockhart.virtualave.net/afal/libraries.html>
Go Home <http://flockhart.virtualave.net/afal/afal.html>

